---
layout: post
title: Development Update 17/06/2013
tags: update
---
This week was mostly about [the release](/2013/06/13/brightstardb-1-3-released.html). In theory making a release should just be a question of running the scripts and doing a couple of uploads. In practice it requires a fair amount of co-ordination; testing, tweaking and retesting of installers; then there is writing, announcing and all that other stuff that has to go on. But its good to get it done and it feels great to finally have BrightstarDB out there as a “proper” open-source release (as opposed to a commercial release with the licensing taken out).

In addition to that, I was working this week on delivering on a long-standing promise to provide a [Portable Class Library](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/vstudio/gg597391(v=vs.110).aspx) port of dotNetRDF finished off. The port ended up taking longer than I had originally expected – partly due to the limited nature of PCL, but mainly due to trying to do too many things at once. The port is a pretty major step towards getting a PCL version of BrightstarDB. Yep, that’s right, we want you to run a triple-store on your Windows 8 tablet, your Windows 7/8 phone and anywhere else that PCL is supported (…with the exception of XBox the APIs were just too restrictive to make it feasible to run BrightstarDB on the XBox – though that would be cool…). There are some challenges ahead to getting to that stage – not least of which is porting the rest of the dependencies and then the core BrightstarDB code to PCL. But I’ll save that for another post. Thanks to Rob Vesse the PCL code is now integrated into dotNetRDF and a pre-release build is available on NuGet (as dotNetRDF 1.0.1-portableRC1).

In other news, [BrightstarDB is now on Ohloh](https://www.ohloh.net/p/BrightstarDB). If you are using BrightstarDB please drop by there and let them know – I like watching stats go up. Or follow us on Twitter or give us a +1 on Google (there should be some buttons at the top of this page). It makes us feel loved. Go on, do it now :)